Visualizing Data for Classification


Visualization for classification problems shares much in common with visualization for regression problems. Colinear features should be identified so they can be eliminated or otherwise dealt with. However, for classification problems you are looking for features that help separate the label categories. Separation is achieved when there are distinctive feature values for each label category. Good separation results in low classification error rate.


Data Preparation

Ensure the ML algorithm work in an optimal way.
Vital to good ML performance.

Best practices for Data preparation(Iterative)

Exploration, relationships and problems
Remove Duplicates
Treat missing valuesTreat errors and outliers
Scale featuresSplit data set
Visualization to check resutls 

and go back to check if all looks Good.

Duplicate - How to fix them

Duplicates in ML overweights and bias the ML model training.
Identify cases. Helps if you have unique columns.

Missing Values:-

Use exploration to detect.
How are missing values coded ?
 - NULL
 - A String or number; NA ; ?, etc.
 
Treatment
	Remove column with mostly missing values - most information
	IF few rows remove.
	Forward or backward fill.(KNN fill)
	Impute; mean, median, trend, etc
	
Errors and Outliers

Erroneous values
Vs Important data; keep - anamolies ; frauds ; etc application of daomain knowledge

Identify cases
 - Statistics
 - Visualization
 
Treatment Strategies
 - Limit to min-max range
 - Repace with mean, median etc
 
Scaling

 -Large numeric range can dominate training.
 large mean values skew model paramenters
 
 Z- score as called standardization
 mean = 0, SD = 1
 Distribution is approx normal
 
 Min-Max
 if Distribution far from normal
 Fails with outliers.
 
 Treat errors and missing values before scaling.
 
Splitting

 -Split data before training
	- Independent training, test and eval subsets
	- Failure to split causes info leakage
 -Bernoulli Sampling - random sampling avoid bias.
 
 -Cross validation - Resampling method.
 
Finding and Treating Missing Data

 -any() - logical check.
 - becuase of missing values the numericals and floating are considered as objects.
 Remove entire columns if alot of missing values are encountered
 Remove the rows for a few missing values.
 
Finding and Treating Duplicate Data

 ****The shape attribute for numpy arrays returns the dimensions of the array. If Y has n rows and m columns, then Y.shape is (n,m). So Y.shape[0] is n.
 .drop_duplicate in pandas to remove duplicates
 
Sacling Data
 Z score rescaling. - StandardScaler() availablei in scikit.
 Split Dataset

Overview of Feature Engineering

 -Good Features are key to ML.
 -Goal : Develop highly predictive features

Feature Engineering Steps
 Exploration to understand data relationships
 Transform feature
 Compute interaction terms
 Visualization
 Test with ML Model
 Repeat

Transforming Features
 Why transform
	Improve distributin properties
	More covariate with label
 Common transformations
	Square, square root etc
	difference, summation, etc
	nonlinear transformed feature are not colinear
